Unfortunately, many of us will become a victim
of identity theft in our lifetime.
And this will only get worse,
so we need to be preemptive,
we need to be vigilant,
we need to be proactive
to ensure that nobody steals our identity,
which can literally ruin your life.
And so, in the past,
if I lost a wallet, you know,
I would just call up the credit card companies,
which happened to me in London once,
and cancel all of my credit cards, okay?
It's not that simple any more.
Because, you know, we might not find out
that somebody stole our financial information
for many months,
and sometimes years.
It eventually, there's something called RFID theft,
which is gonna be common.
RFID stands for radio frequency identification,
I think, yeah.
So RFID theft's gonna be common.
And that means people, this is coming.
Right, people will steal your financial information
wirelessly from your pocket without touching, okay?
And without taking your credit cards, right?
And so it's happening already,
and the best way to protect about it
is to buy RFID blockers, okay?
And so, a lot of bags you can buy now, actually,
have RFID blockers.
I'll show you here in this particular bag of mine.
Okay, so right here, you see that red,
see there?
That's an RFID blocker, okay?
I don't know if you can see red there.
But whatever.
So, and that's obviously where I put my
credit cards and stuff.
All right, nice candy bar I can eat later.
I forgot about it.
(laughs)
Okay, oh, and another one is an RFID wallet.
And I made this one, actually.
I should say, I put it together.
So let me show you.
This here is my...
This is an RFID wallet, okay?
And this thing, this cost 10 bucks, right?
This RFID wallet.
I'll give you the link here as well.
Right, and then I spent $18 on this iPhone case, okay?
And it's silicon,
which means I can glue something to it, okay?
Now, crazy glue doesn't work with this.
But this is an RFID wallet
that I actually used silicon and glued to it.
And you know when you get a credit card in the mail
and there's that kinda stuff,
the glue stuff behind the credit card
that sticks it to the piece of paper?
That's silicon.
So you can rub it off here.
But it actually seals nicely there.
And so this is an RFID blocker, okay?
See that?
It's kinda neat, eh?
Kinda cool.
Okay.
I'll turn that around there.
Yeah.
Isn't that wild?
So I am a nerd, I know, right?
And soon we won't be using these.
Everything'll be wireless, whatever.
But, you know.
So that's what an RFID blocker is.
And again, I give you the links here to glue it.
Use silicon glue, not crazy glue, okay?
Also, please be careful.
If any of your sensitive documents are saved online,
and this is why I include the security button here
on your Complete Personal Finance dashboard file,
and I did not ask you to enter in your real last name
in the settings section,
or any account numbers.
And you could even include your,
I don't know, your nickname if you wanted to, okay?
Okay, and so save this file itself out,
offline only, please, okay?
And when it comes to your credit cards,
the whole sign the back thing is a joke, right?
It really is ridiculous of signing the back, right?
And so I'll show you.
Let me just take out my nerd,
you know, nerd wallet.
Let me take out my credit cards here
and let me show you.
Okay.
Here we go, okay.
So this here is a Virgin America Visa
that I'm actually canceling because my,
somebody stole this number.
I don't know where they did it.
But anyway, you see the back there?
I don't know if you can see that.
It says see ID, okay?
So whenever I go, it's there,
and I pay with this thing,
or I used to, whatever,
and they wanna see my signature,
they would just ask for my driver's license, right?
It's so ridiculous that we give our credit card away
to people to...
At dinners and stuff.
Anyway, it is what it is.
At least in Europe,
they actually bring a little thing to your table
where you can swipe right there,
which makes a lot of sense.
Okay.
Also, destroy all...
Destroy all your hotel cards, okay?
Because these hotel cards, right?
They contain a lot of your personal information, right?
Already on here when you check in the hotel, right?
And you gotta destroy it.
And I'll show you how,
very soon, how to do that, but...
And never give anybody the three or four-digit
credit card verification code over the phone.
Just don't do that, please.
It's just not worth it.
And then never give your email or phone number away
when buying anything ever, whatever.
Just always ask
and only give it to them if you have to,
and anyway, we covered that before.
Also explicitly tell people
to not put you on any distribution lists
when you're at a store buying something
and asked for an email address, right?
Or just open another email address
for only stuff that you don't care about, right?
And then what I actually do is I,
I search my inbox every week or so,
my Gmail inbox,
for the word unsubscribe, okay?
And then I just click unsubscribe on all the emails
that I don't wanna be on, okay?
I don't know how I get on those lists, but I do.
And never give your social security or social insurance
or government issued ID number to anyone
unless you absolutely have to,
and only if it's in person, okay?
Be careful.
And just, you wanna shred all receipts, okay?
And you can buy these shredders for relatively cheap online.
Let me see if I can get it in here.
Here is one here.
And actually also shred credit cards.
You see right here?
You can put the credit card in here.
And this is Amazon Basics.
I love Amazon Basics.
The cheapest stuff,
and it works great, whatever.
And here's the link to get it, as well, right?
So don't put your tie close to this thing.
Not that I wear a tie.
I don't even know how to tie one.
But anyway, keep it away from kids, too.
And I shred all of our stuff,
because somebody could easily go through your trash.
Easily, right?
And they can get so much financial information
that it's crazy.
I wasn't like this until my credit card got stolen,
or my number, in the past.
And if it hasn't happened to you yet,
it might if you're not careful.
I certainly was not careful before.
Anyway, so.
Use private mode when you use browsers, too, okay?
Especially if you're not using your own device
to look at the internet.
So, for example, I don't know,
if you check email on a computer at the Apple Store
or a library,
just go to private mode, okay?
Which is often called incognito mode, okay?
And you can go to file, open, whatever,
private mode, that sort of thing, okay?
And I use Chrome, which is great.
And always review all transactions
on all of your credit card statements.
And I promise you that you will find
at least one questionable transaction every single year,
at a minimum, if you look, okay?
And cancel your credit card
or get a new credit card every year
so that recurring charges stop.
Like the Xbox Live charge I had for years,
I finally got rid of.
And it's really hard to keep track of online transactions
that we make.
And we often click I Agree to online legal contracts
all the time without reading them.
And who the heck has time to read that stuff, okay?
And I promise you this is only gonna get worse, okay?
And one other thing I wanna mention is this.
Download pop-up and ad blockers for your browser,
as well, okay?
And actually, also,
I wanna mention this one, sorry.
Place a hold on your mail if you go away
for even just a few days, okay?
And, you know, have antivirus
and firewall software up to date
and installed on your computer
from a reputable company,
and certainly not this one here, okay?
Okay, and then call the three credit reporting agencies,
or however many agencies there are in your country,
and ask the credit reporting agency
to freeze your credit account
so nobody has access to it if you want to.
And you do have that legal right.
Just ask them first if freezing your credit account
is gonna have a negative impact on your credit score
or not, okay?
And then you have to unfreeze it when you wanna get a loan
so they can check.
And, you know,
change your home wifi password often,
and all passwords that you use online, obviously, as well.
Order your credit report at least once a year
and check to see if there were no accounts that were opened
not by you, but by somebody else.
And a lot of us have already been hacked
identify fraud wise,
which is hurting our credit rating right now.
We just don't know it, right?
So you gotta be vigilant with this stuff, okay?
And if your country has a do not call website,
go to it and make sure your phone numbers
and/or email addresses are registered
so people don't solicit money from you,
which can drive you nuts, right?
And just for more details on identity theft,
here's one website to look at.